sure having a mansion is a sign of
wealth and owning a private jet lets
everyone know that you're rolling in the
dough but there's one thing that rises
above
all else when it comes to luxury and
that's
owning your very own private island
lounging in the sun
with a drink in hand miles away from the
nearest person may sound like a dream
but it's a pricey one today we're going
to take a look at how much
it actually costs and search for an
answer to the big question
is owning a private island actually
worth it
the first big expanse of buying a
private island is
quite obviously purchasing the island
itself
sure you have fantasies about cabanas in
the white sand
and maybe even a golf course on the
north side of the island
but all that starts with finding the
perfect location to build a foundation
on
and make those dreams a reality that
being said
the cost of your island varies
drastically depending on
where you buy in canada for example
which has the highest
number of private islands for sale in
the world
you can get islands for under two
hundred thousand dollars
and if you're really pinching pennies
well you can even scoop up an island for
just
under a hundred thousand dollars take
this island in nova scotia called
half island for just 65 000
less than half the cost of your average
home you can buy this six acre
island that's located less than a mile
away from the mainland
however that price comes with a catch
sure
65 000 is great for your own little
slice of paradise
in the summer at least in winter
temperatures around
half island can reach as low as negative
22 degrees
fahrenheit the island is only feasible
to live on
during summer and even during the summer
getting supplies
can be a hassle when you're thinking of
a private island
chances are you're not thinking of cold
remote locations
you're thinking locations with sandy
beaches and palm trees
where flip-flops are considered formal
attire likely
you're picturing the caribbean made up
of thousands of
islands with hills sprawling sand
beaches and crystal clear waters the
caribbean
is a breathtaking location to build the
tropical oasis
of your dreams and there are plenty of
islands to pick from
surprisingly the prices aren't actually
that overwhelming
either if you're settling for a smaller
chunk of land that's more remote you can
snag an
island for between one and three million
dollars
but if you're looking for a larger
island in the more popular
desirable areas of the caribbean well
that price can be anywhere between 30 to
100 million dollars
some of the popular island chains
include the exumas
the abaco islands and the berry islands
islands in these chains in particular
offer an advantage that remote islands
don't they're close to bigger towns
in cities which eases access for
visiting guests and owners
take for example spectabilis island in
the axiumus the island stretches 460
acres
which includes dozens of white sand
beaches scenic hilltop views
and plenty of potential building space
and it's only 230 miles from
miami and a mere 60 miles from the
capitol
it's pricey but it's easily accessible
and it comes with the added bonus of
being able to say
yes i have an island in the exumas then
there are the more remote areas of the
caribbean like little ragged island
a 700 acre island that's listed for 35
million dollars
compared to spectabilis you get almost
double the land for well
half the price and that's not all little
ragged island has
two ponds meaning you have access to
fresh water
and it has 30 000 feet of shoreline
which is equal to about 5.6 miles
and you'll really really have that 5.6
miles of shoreline to yourself
because the 110 mile long ragged island
chain
is incredibly underdeveloped with only
one
small town that has a population of 72
people
in other words you might as well not buy
this island if you have any desire to
hit up a local nightclub
or dine at a fancy restaurant across all
these price ranges and locations
the islands we've looked at all have
something in common
they're underdeveloped at first that may
not seem like a big deal
if you have enough money to buy a
private island then
surely building a house on said island
shouldn't be an issue
right well not really because when you
buy
a private island you're not just paying
for the land to build a house on
no no no there's a lot more that goes
into it
for starters you have to find out if you
even can
build on the island places like the
caribbean have strict
environmental laws on building because
the ecosystem of the region
is so fragile there an environmental
impact study
is required before you make any changes
to the island you've bought
and that environmental impact study
doesn't come cheap
it'll cost you at least fifty thousand
dollars
these environmental laws are also common
in canada
where endangered animals may call the
lake and ocean islands
home i mean after all you wouldn't want
to evict cute little critters like this
would you oh look at him go in ontario
specifically
you're only allowed to build if there is
more than an acre of buildable land on
the island
meaning scooping up a super small island
for the cost of your monthly paycheck
isn't actually worth it unless you feel
like camping
on top of the expensive environmental
study that takes place before you build
there are dozens of environmental
protection laws that will increase the
price of your build
things like how you gather water how you
generate electricity and how you
access the island are greatly regulated
in order to protect the beautiful lakes
and oceans
so keep in mind how much that will run
the bill up in addition to the standard
cost of
building a home but all environmental
stuff aside
there are lots of other logistics to
figure out firstly
shipping building supplies to the island
which doesn't come cheap along with the
building supplies
you'll need to get heavyweight building
equipment on the island which requires
specific boats and once you've dropped
thousands
and thousands of dollars to get the
supplies to your doorstep you need to
have skilled contractors
plumbers and electricians on the island
daily
if your island is miles and miles away
from the nearest town with hotels
like little ragged island is in the
caribbean then you're looking at some
massive costs just to get your building
crew
on site plus you have to actually build
a way for your preferred mode of
transportation to reach the island
if you want to access the island fast
well you can build an airstrip but most
estimates put the cost of that somewhere
upwards of one
million dollars i mean a helipad is a
cheaper option
or you could go with a dock for boats
and seaplane access
but these are still going to cost you a
pretty penny
that being said it's a lot easier to buy
a developed island
rather than an undeveloped one take
frozen k
located in the berry island chain of the
bahamas the 40 acre island costs
17 million dollars and is readily
accessible by both
boat and seaplane it features white
powder beaches
lush forests and a six-bedroom
six-bathroom residence
that measures a whopping 4145 square
feet
oh and there's also a heated swimming
pool of course
in addition there is an 806 square foot
manager's cottage and a 1534 foot
staff cottage as well as a marina that
accommodates up to 100 foot long yachts
however frozen k brings up yet another
cost associated with
private islands and that's maintenance
if you have enough money for a private
island
chances are you're pretty busy with work
and won't be able to spend all your time
sipping pina coladas with your feet in
the sand leaving the home
unoccupied puts you at risk of squatters
break-ins
and other damage so having the island
occupied and taken care of
is a necessity though i've spent much of
the video
talking about the costs associated with
having your own private island
there's also a potential to make money
when you're not
occupying your home private island
rentals are wildly popular for the
wealthy
including myself islands like schwanny k
in the bahamas have a minimum cost of 14
000 per day but that's just for double
occupancy
each additional person costs 500
per day so bringing just four more
people will cost you
sixteen thousand dollars per day at a
minimum
not including gratuity in other words if
you own that island
you can make some darn good money if
schwanny k
is rented out just as a double occupancy
at the lowest rate for every day of the
year
the property will bring in at least five
million dollars
there is that wonderful benefit of
additional income that comes with owning
a private island
but it'd be wrong of me not to mention
the other benefits which is simply
owning a slice
of paradise having your own escape miles
and miles away from the nearest person
is a joy
like no other waking up and walking down
to the beach that is
yours sipping wine on the deck that is
yours
overlooking the ocean in your underwear
if you want because
well it's your island you make the rules
there's all sorts of reasons that people
dream of owning private islands that
being said
it's time to answer the big question is
owning a private island
worth it well i suppose that's up to you
to decide
are the insane costs time-consuming
regulations
and painstaking transportation of
building supplies and amenities worth
lounging on an island
you can call home what do you think and
if you had your own private island what
would you name it be sure to let me know
in the comments down below
thanks for watching if you enjoyed the
video make sure to leave a like and
subscribe
as always i'm mr luxury pip pip to
doodly do